
=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides profile setup for HAVANA users to access Anacode software.

Currently supplies only C<bash> profile, leaving C<tcsh> users reliant
on the legacy and ubiquitous C<~/.cshrc>


=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Who is using it?

Consider only havana members,

  HAVANA_USERS=$( ypmatch havana aliases ),humpub
  SWCFGS=$(  eval ls -1 ~{$HAVANA_USERS}/.softwarerc )
  grep -10 anacode $SWCFGS

  # missed any?
  VERTANNS=$(ypmatch vertann group | cut -d: -f4)
  echo $VERTANNS $VERTANNS $HAVANA_USERS | sed -e 's/[, ]/\n/g' | sort | uniq -c | grep -E ' *2 '

=head2 With which shell?

  ypcat passwd | grep -E "^($( echo $HAVANA_USERS | tr , '|' )):" | \
    cut -d: --output-delimiter="$( printf '\t' )" -f1,7

  grep bash $( eval ls -1 ~{$HAVANA_USERS}/.cshrc )

=head2 Who doesn't have ~/.softwarerc ?

The problem is that the default (badger, oracle from
/etc/csh/sanger/softwarerc ) could well interact with current .cshrc
and there is no way we're going to deal with that automatically.

 NOSWRC_USERS=$( eval ls -1 ~{$HAVANA_USERS}/.softwarerc 2>&1 >/dev/null | cut -d/ -f7 )
 NOSWRC_CSHRC=$( eval ls -1 ~{$( echo $NOSWRC_USERS | tr ' ' ,)}/.cshrc )
 tail -n+1 $NOSWRC_CSHRC | less
 perl -ne 's/^\s+|[ \t]+$//g; s/\\\n/ CONT /; print unless /^#|^ *$/' $NOSWRC_CSHRC | sort | uniq -c | less

=head2 Origin

L<http://git.internal.sanger.ac.uk/cgi-bin/gitweb.cgi?p=anacode/team_tools.git;a=tree;f=swac-etc>
probably the master branch.

=head2 Ignore files

There are two.  One for files that Git ignores, and another for files
that rsync ignores.


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://mediawiki.internal.sanger.ac.uk/wiki/index.php/Project_software>

F</etc/bashrc>

F</etc/csh/sanger/> which comes from CVS and contains dotfiles.

